<sub>Leland</sub>
<sup>1991</sup>
<sub>[Paper](https://www.proquest.com/openview/9ecd7ebcf7f029af9bce6cc2bba802aa/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=18750&diss=y)</sub>

#### Abstract
Political media coverage and political advertising have become some of the most common formats through which political candidates communicate to the voters. As such, voters are forced into relationships with the media. Consider the cases of the 1990 gubernatorial campaigns in Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. In each of these campaigns the political campaign communication was deeply imbedded with narrative elements either of the candidate's own generation or narrative elements created by the media pundits about the campaigns. The purpose of this content analytic and rhetorical study is to describe, analyze, compare, and evaluate narrative elements of political campaign messages in an effort to better understand the form, activity, and function of narrative elements. In turn, one gains a clearer vision of complex campaign "rhetoric,11 as well as a firmer understanding of the nature of narrative in communication. Narratives, within the scope of this study, are defined as a way of ordering and presenting a view of the world through description of a situation involving characters, actions, and settings that change over time. In completing this study it was necessary to not only determine the thematic developments of the media coverage and ads, but also to identify the temporal issues or images that were primary to the expression of the specific narrative elements.

Although there is much speculation about the concept of narrative theory, and an equal amount of speculation about the dramatic role that political candidates play, a systematic analysis of the two realms has yet to reveal much information. This study provides for a description of narrative form, a development of narrative style, a discovery o'f narrative themes, and a discussion of the theoretical implications of narrative functionality. The data presented here offers evidence that narratives are an intricate part of the political campaign. When one studies campaign messages from the narrative perspective one gains insight into the nature of campaigns, the campaign communication, and the political arena. This study is a very pragmatic attempt to do just that. Additionally, the study provides a springboard for bringing the findings of the existence of narrative elements in campaign messages together with a functional explanation for the unique characteristics of the political narrative elements.